<sect1 id="brief-intro">
<title>A brief introduction to &kdesrc-build;</title>

<sect2 id="whatis-kdesrc-build">
<title>What is &kdesrc-build;?</title>

<para>
&kdesrc-build; is a script to help the &kde; community install <ulink
url="https://www.kde.org/">&kde;</ulink> software from its <ulink
url="https://git-scm.com/">&git;</ulink> and <ulink
url="https://subversion.apache.org">&subversion;</ulink> source repositories,
and continue to update that software afterwards.
It is particularly intended to support those who need to supporting testing and
development of &kde; software, including users testing bugfixes and developers
working on new features.
</para>

<para>The &kdesrc-build; script can be configured to maintain a single individual
module, a full &plasma; desktop with &kde; application set, or somewhere in between.
</para>

<para>To get started, see <xref linkend="getting-started"/>, or continue reading for more
detail on how &kdesrc-build; works and what is covered in this documentation.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="operation-in-a-nutshell">
<title>&kdesrc-build; operation <quote>in a nutshell</quote></title>

<para>&kdesrc-build; works by using the tools available to the user at the
command-line, using the same interfaces available to the user. When
&kdesrc-build; is run, the following sequence is followed: </para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>&kdesrc-build; reads in the <link linkend="cmdline">command
line</link> and <link linkend="configure-data">configuration file</link>, to
determine what to build, compile options to use, where to install,
&etc;</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>&kdesrc-build; performs a source update for each <link
linkend="module-concept">module</link>. The update continues until all modules
have been updated. Modules that fail to update normally do not stop the build
&ndash; you will be notified at the end which modules did not
update.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Modules that were successfully updated are built, have their
test suite run, and are then installed.  To reduce the overall time spent,
&kdesrc-build; will by default start building the code as soon as the first
module has completed updating, and allow the remaining updates to continue
behind the scenes.
</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<tip><para>A <emphasis>very good</emphasis> overview of how &kde; modules are
built, including informative diagrams, is provided on <ulink
url="https://www.davidrevoy.com/article193/guide-building-krita-on-linux-for-
cats">an online article discussing &kde;'s &krita; application</ulink>.  This
workflow is what &kdesrc-build; automates for all &kde; modules.</para>
</tip>

</sect2>
</sect1>
