<chapter id="kdesvn-buildrc">
<title>The Format of .kdesvn-buildrc</title>

<para>
To use the script, you must have a file in your home directory called
<filename>.kdesvn-buildrc</filename>, which describes the modules you would
like to download and build.
</para>

<para>
It starts with the global options, specified like the following:
</para>

<programlisting>
global
<replaceable>option-name option-value</replaceable>
<replaceable>[...]</replaceable>
end global
</programlisting>

<para>
It is then followed by one or more module sections, specified like the
following:
</para>

<programlisting>
module <replaceable>module-name</replaceable>
<replaceable>option-name option-value</replaceable>
<replaceable>[...]</replaceable>
end module
</programlisting>

<para>
<replaceable>module-name</replaceable> must be a module from the &kde; &subversion; repository (for
example, kdelibs or kdebase). Some options override global options, some
add to global options, and some global options simply can't be overridden.
</para>

<para>
The following is an alphabetized list of options you can use. Click on the
option to find out more about it. If one is not documented, please e-mail the
authors using the address you can find <link linkend="authors">above</link>.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-apidox">apidox</link>, to build API Documentation</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-apply-qt-patches">apply-qt-patches</link>, to enhance qt-copy</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-binpath">binpath</link>, to set the <envar>PATH</envar> variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-branch">branch</link>, to checkout from a branch instead of /trunk.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-build-dir">build-dir</link>, to set the directory to build in.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-checkout-only">checkout-only</link>, to checkout only parts of a module.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-cmake-options">cmake-options</link> to define what flags to configure a module with using &cmake;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-colorful-output">colorful-output</link> to add color to the script output.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-configure-flags">configure-flags</link> to define what flags to configure a module with.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-cxxflags">cxxflags</link> to define the <envar>CXXFLAGS</envar> variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-dest-dir">dest-dir</link> to change the directory name for a module.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-disable-agent-check">disable-agent-check</link>, to keep &kdesvn-build; from checking on ssh-agent's status.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-do-not-compile">do-not-compile</link>, to mark directories to skip building.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-inst-apps">inst-apps</link>, to only build and install some directories.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-install-after-build">install-after-build</link>, to avoid installing after the build process.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-kdedir">kdedir</link>, to set the directory to install &kde; to.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-kde-languages">kde-languages</link>, to set the translation packages to download and install.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-libpath">libpath</link>, to set the <envar>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</envar> variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-make-install-prefix">make-install-prefix</link>, to run a helper program (like &sudo;) during <userinput><command>make</command> <option>install</option></userinput>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-make-options">make-options</link>, to pass options to the &make; program.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-manual-build">manual-build</link>, to avoid building the module automatically.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-manual-update">manual-update</link>, to avoid doing anything to the module automatically.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-module-base-path">module-base-path</link>, to change where to download the module from (useful for branches and tags).</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-niceness">niceness</link>, to change the CPU priority.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-no-rebuild-on-fail">no-rebuild-on-fail</link>, to avoid running &make; again if it fails.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-qtdir">qtdir</link>, to set the path to &Qt;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-set-env">set-env</link>, to set an environment variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-source-dir">source-dir</link>, to change where to download the source code to.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-stop-on-failure">stop-on-failure</link>, to make &kdesvn-build; stop as soon as a failure is encountered.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-svn-server">svn-server</link>, to change the server the sources are downloaded from.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-use-unsermake">use-unsermake</link>, to use the advanced &unsermake; build system.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>


<para>
Here is a table of the various options, and some comments on them. Any
option which overrides the global option will override a command line setting
as well.
</para>

<table id="option-table">
<title>Table of Options</title>
<tgroup cols="3">

<thead>
<row>
<entry>Option-name</entry>
<entry>Module -&gt; Global Behavior</entry>
<entry>Notes</entry>
</row>
</thead>

<tbody>

<row id="conf-apidox">
<entry>apidox</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>
Set this option to <replaceable>true</replaceable> in order to have &kdesvn-build; automatically
build and install the API documentation for the module after the normal build/install
process. This only works for modules where <command>make apidox</command> does something,
including kdelibs, kdebase and koffice, among others.
</para>
<para>This option does not work for modules using &unsermake; support, due to
deficiencies in the &unsermake; build system. This option does not work for
&kde; 4 modules because the required build system support has been migrated to
a different program which &kdesvn-build; has not been corrected to use yet.
</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-apply-qt-patches">
<entry>apply-qt-patches</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>This option is only useful for qt-copy. If it is set to a non-zero value,
then the apply-patches script in qt-copy will be run prior to building, in
order to apply the non-official patches to the qt-copy. Since these patches
are normally the reason for using qt-copy instead of a stock &Qt;, it shouldn't
do any harm to enable it. The default is to enable the patches.</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-binpath">
<entry>binpath</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>Set this option to set the environment variable PATH while building.
You can't override this setting in a module option. The default value is
<filename class="directory">/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/X11R6/bin</filename>. This environment
variable should include the colon-separated paths of your development
toolchain. The paths <filename class="directory">$KDEDIR/bin</filename> and
<filename class="directory">$QTDIR/bin</filename> are automatically added. You
may use the tilde (~) for any paths you add using this option.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-branch">
<entry>branch</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>Set this option to checkout from a branch of &kde; instead of the
default of "trunk", where &kde; development occurs. For instance, to checkout
&kde; 3.4 branch, you would set this option to "3.4".</para>
<para>Note that some modules use a different branch name. Notably, the
required arts module doesn't go by &kde; version numbers. The arts that
accompanied &kde; 3.4 was version 1.4.</para>
<para>If &kdesvn-build; fails to properly download a branch with this option, you
may have to manually specify the URL to download from using the <link
linkend="conf-override-url">override-url</link> option.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-build-dir">
<entry>build-dir</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Use this option to change the directory to contain the built sources. There
are three different ways to use it:
<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>Relative to the &kde; &subversion; source directory (see <link
linkend="conf-source-dir">the source-dir option</link>). This is the default, and
the way the script worked up to version v0.61. This mode is selected if you
type a directory name that doesn't start with a tilde (~) or a slash (/).</para>
<para>The default value is <filename class="directory">build</filename>.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Absolute path. If you specify a path that begins with a /, then that path
is used directly. For example, <filename class="directory">/tmp/kde-obj-dir/</filename>.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Relative to your home directory. If you specify a path that begins with a
~, then the path is used relative to your home directory, analogous to the
shell's tilde-expansion. For example, <filename class="directory">~/builddir</filename> would set the build
directory to <filename class="directory">/home/user-name/builddir</filename>.</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

Perhaps surprisingly, this option can be changed per module.

</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-checkout-only">
<entry>checkout-only</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set this option to checkout &subversion; sources piece by piece. The value
for this option should be a space separated list of directories to checkout.
If you don't include the admin directory, it will automatically be included (if
necessary). When checking out piece by piece, the admin directory will be
pulled in from kde-common, which is where it exists on the &subversion; server.
Although this option overrides the global option, be aware that setting this as
a global option makes no sense.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-cmake-options">
<entry>cmake-options</entry>
<entry>Appends to global options (not applicable to qt-copy)</entry>
<entry><para>Use this option to specify what flags to pass to &cmake; when creating
the build system for the module. When this is used as a global option, it is
applied to all modules that this script builds. When used as a module option,
it is added to the end of the global options. This allows you to specify
common &cmake; options in the global section.</para>

<para>This option replaces <link linkend="conf-configure-flags">configure-flags</link>
for all &kde; 4 modules, since they use &cmake; to build.</para>

<para>Since these options are passed directly to the &cmake; command line, they
should be given as they would be typed into &cmake;. For example:</para>

<screen>  cmake-options -DRPATH_STYLE=default
</screen>

<para>Since this is a hassle, &kdesvn-build; takes pains to ensure that as long
as the rest of the options are set correctly, you should be able to leave this
option blank.</para></entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-configure-flags">
<entry>configure-flags</entry>
<entry>Appends to global options (except for qt-copy)</entry>
<entry><para>Use this option to specify what flags to pass to ./configure when creating
the build system for the module. When this is used as a global-option, it is
applied to all modules that this script builds. qt-copy uses a much different
set of configure options than the rest of &kde;, so this option
<emphasis>overrides</emphasis> the global settings when applied to qt-copy.
</para>

<para>This option applies to qt-copy and all &kde; 3 modules. &kde; 4 modules use
&cmake;, which is controlled using the <link linkend="conf-cmake-options">cmake-options</link>
option.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-colorful-output">
<entry>colorful-output</entry>
<entry>Can't be overridden</entry>
<entry>Set this option to <replaceable>false</replaceable> to disable the colorful output of &kdesvn-build;.
This option defaults to <replaceable>true</replaceable>. Note that &kdesvn-build; won't output the
color codes to anything but a terminal (such as xterm, &konsole;, or the normal
&Linux; console).
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-cxxflags">
<entry>cxxflags</entry>
<entry>Appends to global option</entry>
<entry>Use this option to specify what flags to pass to <command>./configure</command> as the
<envar>CXXFLAGS</envar> when creating the build system for the module. This option is
specified here instead of with <link
linkend="conf-configure-flags">configure-flags</link> or <link
linkend="conf-cmake-options">cmake-options</link> because this option will also
set the environment variable <envar>CXXFLAGS</envar> during the build process.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-dest-dir">
<entry>dest-dir</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Use this option to change the name a module is given on disk. For
example, if your module was extragear/network, you could rename it to
extragear-network using this option.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-disable-agent-check">
<entry>disable-agent-check</entry>
<entry>Can't be overridden</entry>
<entry>Normally if you're using &ssh; to download the &subversion; sources (such as
if you're using the svn+ssh protocol), &kdesvn-build; will try and make sure that
if you're using ssh-agent, it is actually managing some &ssh; identities. This is
to try and prevent &ssh; from asking for your pass phrase for every module. You can
disable this check by setting <option>disable-agent-check</option> to <replaceable>true</replaceable>.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-do-not-compile">
<entry>do-not-compile</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>Use this option to set the <envar>DO_NOT_COMPILE</envar> environment variable prior to
running the configure script. According to the <ulink
url="http://developer.kde.org/documentation/other/developer-faq.html">&kde;
Developer FAQ</ulink>, this should cause any top-level directory you pass to not be
built. The directories should be space-separated.</para>

<para>Note that the sources to the programs will still be downloaded. You can use
the <link linkend="conf-checkout-only">checkout-only</link>
directive to choose directories that you want to check out.</para>

<important><para>This option does not yet work with modules built using
&cmake;.</para></important>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-email-address">
<entry>email-address</entry>
<entry>Can't be overridden</entry>
<entry>
<para>Set this option to the e-mail address &kdesvn-build; should send from should
it ever need to send e-mail. You do not need to worry about this if you don't
use any feature which send e-mail. (They are all disabled by default).
</para>

<para>Currently only <link linkend="conf-email-on-compile-error">email-on-compile-error</link>
needs this option.
</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-email-on-compile-error">
<entry>email-on-compile-error</entry>
<entry>Can't be overridden</entry>
<entry>
<para>You can set this option to the email address to send a report to when a
module fails to build. &kdesvn-build; will wait until all the modules are done
and collate all of the results in the report. The report is only sent if a
module fails to build.
</para>

<para>Please see the <link linkend="conf-email-address">email-address</link>
option to set the address &kdesvn-build; should send from, since the default
is usually not what you want.
</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-inst-apps">
<entry>inst-apps</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>This is the opposite of the <link
linkend="conf-do-not-compile">do-not-compile</link> option. This option makes it
so that only the given top-level directories are built. The directories should
be space-separated.</para>

<para>Any changes don't take effect until the next time
<command>make <option>-f</option> Makefile.cvs</command> is
run, either automatically by the script, or manually by the <link
linkend="cmdline-refresh-build"><option>--refresh-build</option></link> or <link
linkend="cmdline-recreate-configure"><option>--recreate-configure</option></link> options.
</para>

<important><para>This option does not yet work with modules built using
the &cmake; build system.</para></important>

<para>Note that the sources to the programs will still be downloaded. You can use
the <link linkend="conf-checkout-only">checkout-only</link>
directive to choose directories that you want to check out.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-install-after-build">
<entry>install-after-build</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>This option is used to install the package after it successfully builds.
This option is enabled by default. If you want to disable this, you need to
set this option to 0 in the <link linkend="configure-data">configuration file</link>. You can also use the
<link linkend="cmdline-no-install"><option>--no-install</option></link> command line flag.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-kdedir">
<entry>kdedir</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>This option sets the directory that &kde; will be installed to after it is
built. It defaults to <filename class="directory">~/kde</filename>. If you change this to a directory
needing root access, you may want to read about the <link
linkend="conf-make-install-prefix">make-install-prefix</link> option as well.</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-kde-languages">
<entry>kde-languages</entry>
<entry>Can't be overridden</entry>
<entry><para>This option allows you to choose to download and install localization
packages along with &kde;. You might do this if you do not live in the United
States and would like to &kde; translated into your native language.</para>

<para>To use this option, set it to a space-separated list of languages to
install. Each language has a language code associated with it, which you 
can look up at this page: <ulink
url="http://i18n.kde.org/teams/">http://i18n.kde.org/teams/</ulink>.
</para>

<para>It is alright to choose only one language. By default, none are downloaded,
which means &kde; will display in American English.</para>

<para>For instance, to choose to install French, you would set the option to
something like: <userinput><option>kde-languages</option> <replaceable>fr</replaceable></userinput>.
You would still need to use &kcontrol; in order to choose the
French language, however.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-libpath">
<entry>libpath</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set this option to set the environment variable LD_LIBRARY_PATH while
building. You can't override this setting in a module option. The default
value is blank, but the paths <filename class="directory">$KDEDIR/lib</filename> and
<filename class="directory">$QTDIR/lib</filename> are automatically
added. You may use the tilde (~) for any paths you add using this option.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-log-dir">
<entry>log-dir</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Use this option to change the directory used to hold the log files
generated by the script. This setting can be set on a per-module basis as of
version 0.64 or later.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-make-install-prefix">
<entry>make-install-prefix</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set this variable to a space-separated list, which is interpreted as a
command and its options to precede the <userinput><command>make</command> <option>install</option></userinput> command used to install
modules. This is useful for installing packages with &sudo; for example, but
please be careful while dealing with root privileges.</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-make-options">
<entry>make-options</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set this variable in order to pass command line options to the <command>make</command>
command. This is useful for programs such as <ulink
url="http://distcc.samba.org/"><application>distcc</application></ulink> or
systems with more than one processor core.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-manual-build">
<entry>manual-build</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set the option value to <replaceable>true</replaceable> to keep the build process from attempting to
build this module. It will still be kept up-to-date when updating from &subversion;.
This option is exactly equivalent to the <link
linkend="cmdline-no-build"><option>--no-build</option></link> command line option.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-manual-update">
<entry>manual-update</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set the option value to <replaceable>true</replaceable> to keep the build process from attempting to
update (and by extension, build or install) this module. If you set this
option for a module, then you have pretty much commented it out.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-module-base-path">
<entry>module-base-path</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>Set this option to override &kdesvn-build;'s default directory path to the
module in question. This can be used, for example, to pull specific branches
or tagged versions of libraries. <ulink url="http://websvn.kde.org/">The &kde;
Source Viewer</ulink> is invaluable in helping to pick the right path.</para>
<para>Note that &kdesvn-build; constructs the final path according to the
following template:
<varname>$svn-server</varname>/home/kde/<varname>$module-base-path</varname>/<varname>$module-name</varname>.
</para>
<para>The default value is either <quote>trunk</quote> or
<quote>trunk/KDE</quote>, depending on the module name.</para>
<tip><para>Use the <link linkend="conf-branch">branch</link> or <link
linkend="conf-tag">tag</link> options instead whenever they are applicable.
</para></tip>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-niceness">
<entry>niceness</entry>
<entry>Can't be overridden</entry>
<entry>Set this option to a number between 20 and 0. The higher the number, the
lower a priority &kdesvn-build; will set for itself. The default is 10.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-no-rebuild-on-fail">
<entry>no-rebuild-on-fail</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set this option value to <replaceable>true</replaceable> to always prevent &kdesvn-build; from trying
to rebuild this module if it should fail an incremental build. Normally
&kdesvn-build; will try to rebuild the module from scratch to counteract the
effect of a stray &subversion; update messing up the build system.</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-override-url">
<entry>override-url</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>If you set this option, &kdesvn-build; will use its value as the URL
to pass to &subversion; <emphasis>completely unchanged</emphasis>. You should
generally use this if you want to download a specific release but &kdesvn-build;
can't figure out what you mean using <link linkend="conf-branch">branch</link>.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-qtdir">
<entry>qtdir</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set this option to set the environment variable QTDIR while building.
You can't override this setting in a module option. If you don't specify
this option, it defaults to
<filename class="directory"><varname>$(source-dir)</varname>/build/qt-copy</filename>,
which uses the qt-copy module included in the &kde; source repository.
You may use a tilde (~) to represent your home directory.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-remove-after-install">
<entry>remove-after-install</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>If you are low on hard disk space, you may want to use this option
in order to automatically delete the build directory (or both the source and
build directories for one-time installs) after the module is successfully
installed.
</para>
<para>Possible values for this option are:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>none - Do not delete anything (This is the default).</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>builddir - Delete the build directory, but not the source.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>all - Delete both the source code and build directory.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>Note that using this option can have a significant detrimental impact on
both your bandwidth usage (if you use 'all') and the time taken to compile &kde;,
since &kdesvn-build; will be unable to perform incremental builds.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-revision">
<entry>revision</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>If this option is set to a value other than 0 (zero), &kdesvn-build;
will force the &subversion; update to bring the module to the exact revision
given, even if options like <link linkend="conf-branch">branch</link> are in
effect. If the module is already at the given revision then it will not be
updated further unless this option is changed or removed from the
configuration.</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-set-env">
<entry>set-env</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>This option accepts a space-separated set of values, where the first value
is the environment variable to set, and the rest of the values is what you
want the variable set to. For example, to set the variable RONALD to
McDonald, you would put in the appropriate section this command:</para>
<screen><command>set-env</command> <envar>RONALD</envar> <userinput>McDonald</userinput></screen>
<para>This option is special in that it can be repeated without overriding
earlier set-env settings in the same section of the <link linkend="configure-data">configuration file</link>. This
way you can set more than one environment variable per module (or
globally).</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-source-dir">
<entry>source-dir</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>This option is used to set the directory on your computer to store the &kde;
&subversion; sources at. If you don't specify this value, the default is
<filename class="directory">~/kdesvn</filename>. If
you do specify this value, use an absolute path name.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-stop-on-failure">
<entry>stop-on-failure</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Set this option value to <replaceable>true</replaceable> to cause the script to stop execution
after an error occurs during the build or install process. This option is off
by default.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-svn-server">
<entry>svn-server</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>This option is used to set the server used to check out from &subversion;.
The default is the anonymous &subversion; repository, <emphasis>svn://anonsvn.kde.org/</emphasis></entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-tag">
<entry>tag</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>Use this option to download a specific release of a module.</para>
<para><emphasis>NOTE:</emphasis> The odds are very good that you DO NOT WANT
to use this option. &kde; releases are available in tarball form from <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/">The &kde; FTP site</ulink> or one of <ulink
url="http://download.kde.org/download.php">its mirrors</ulink>.</para>
<para>If you are using &kdesvn-build; because you have having trouble getting
a &kde; release to build on your distribution, consider using the <ulink
url="http://developer.kde.org/build/konstruct/">Konstruct build tool</ulink>
instead, which works from the release tarballs.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-unsermake-options">
<entry>unsermake-options</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>This option is just like <link linkend="conf-make-options">make-options</link>
but for &unsermake;, which accepts some options that &make;
cannot understand.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-use-cmake">
<entry>use-cmake</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>This option was removed in &kdesvn-build; 1.4 as all &kde; 4 modules
require &cmake;, and &cmake; use is not permitted on any other modules.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-use-qt-builddir-hack">
<entry>use-qt-builddir-hack</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry>Although this option overrides the global option, it only makes sense for
qt-copy. Set this option to <replaceable>true</replaceable> to enable the script's
srcdir != builddir mode. When enabled,
&kdesvn-build; will copy the qt-copy source module to the build directory,
and perform builds from there. That means your QTDIR environment variable
should be set to
<filename class="directory">$(qt-copy-build-dir)/qt-copy/lib</filename>
instead. You should also change your <link linkend="conf-qtdir">qtdir</link>
option accordingly. Incremental &make; should still work in this mode, as the
timestamps will be preserved after the copy. If you use the
<link linkend="conf-apply-qt-patches">apply-qt-patches</link> option, the patches
will be applied in the build directory, not the source directory.
This option defaults to <replaceable>true</replaceable>.
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-use-stable-kde">
<entry>use-stable-kde</entry>
<entry>Can't be overridden</entry>
<entry><para>Since &kdesvn-build; has support for building &kde; 3 and 4, there
needs to be some way to tell which version to build. By default, &kdesvn-build;
will build the main line of &kde; development (called /trunk). But, this is
for &kde; 4, which isn't yet ready for wide release.
</para>

<para>You can use the &branch; option globally or for a module in order to
download for &kde; 3.5 (or 3.4, etc.). However, this isn't convenient as some
modules (such as kdesupport) are shared by 3.5 and 4. In addition, it is a
lot of branch options that must be added to the configuration file.</para>

<para>So, if you set this global option to <replaceable>true</replaceable>, &kdesvn-build;
will automatically download the &kde; 3.5 version of modules such as kdelibs
and qt-copy, instead of downloading the &kde; 4 version. You can still use
the &branch; or &tag; options for a module to override the setting that
&kdesvn-build; picks. This way you can easily choose to download &kde; 3.5
instead of the pre-release &kde; 4.</para>
</entry>
</row>

<row id="conf-use-unsermake">
<entry>use-unsermake</entry>
<entry>Overrides global</entry>
<entry><para>Set this option to <replaceable>true</replaceable> in order to use the
experimental &unsermake; program instead of &automake; when running the configure
script. This can lead to some serious decreases in build time, especially for
<ulink url="http://www.csh.rit.edu/slashdot/distcc.html">distributed building
systems</ulink>. This option defaults to <replaceable>true</replaceable> (for most modules).
</para>

<para>Normally if you use this option &kdesvn-build; will automatically keep
&unsermake; up-to-date. This may start to get annoying, especially if you are
managing &unsermake; yourself. If this is the case, you can set this option to
<quote>self</quote>, and &kdesvn-build; will still use &unsermake;, but will not
do anything special to keep it updated.
</para>
</entry>
</row>

</tbody>

</tgroup>
</table>

</chapter>
