<sect1 id="kdesvn-buildrc-overview">
<title>Overview of &kdesvn-build; configuration</title>

<para>
To use the script, you must have a file in your home directory called
<filename>.kdesvn-buildrc</filename>, which describes the modules you would
like to download and build.
</para>

<para>
It starts with the global options, specified like the following:
</para>

<programlisting>
global
<replaceable>option-name option-value</replaceable>
<replaceable>[...]</replaceable>
end global
</programlisting>

<para>
It is then followed by one or more module sections, specified like the
following:
</para>

<programlisting>
module <replaceable>module-name</replaceable>
<replaceable>option-name option-value</replaceable>
<replaceable>[...]</replaceable>
end module
</programlisting>

<para>
<replaceable>module-name</replaceable> must be a module from the &kde; &subversion; repository (for
example, kdelibs or kdebase). Some options override global options, some
add to global options, and some global options simply cannot be overridden.
</para>

<para>
The following is an alphabetized list of options you can use. Click on the
option to find out more about it. If one is not documented, please e-mail the
authors using the address you can find <link linkend="authors">above</link>.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-async">async</link>, to update and build at the same time.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-binpath">binpath</link>, to set the <envar>PATH</envar> variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-branch">branch</link>, to checkout from a branch instead of /trunk.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-build-dir">build-dir</link>, to set the directory to build in.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-checkout-only">checkout-only</link>, to checkout only parts of a module.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-cmake-options">cmake-options</link> to define what flags to configure a module with using &cmake;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-colorful-output">colorful-output</link> to add color to the script output.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-configure-flags">configure-flags</link> to define what flags to configure a module with.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-cxxflags">cxxflags</link> to define the <envar>CXXFLAGS</envar> variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-dest-dir">dest-dir</link> to change the directory name for a module.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-disable-agent-check">disable-agent-check</link>, to keep &kdesvn-build; from checking on ssh-agent's status.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-do-not-compile">do-not-compile</link>, to mark directories to skip building.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-install-after-build">install-after-build</link>, to avoid installing after the build process.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-kdedir">kdedir</link>, to set the directory to install &kde; to.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-kde-languages">kde-languages</link>, to set the translation packages to download and install.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-libpath">libpath</link>, to set the <envar>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</envar> variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-make-install-prefix">make-install-prefix</link>, to run a helper program (like &sudo;) during <userinput><command>make</command> <option>install</option></userinput>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-make-options">make-options</link>, to pass options to the &make; program.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-manual-build">manual-build</link>, to avoid building the module automatically.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-manual-update">manual-update</link>, to avoid doing anything to the module automatically.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-module-base-path">module-base-path</link>, to change where to download the module from (useful for branches and tags).</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-niceness">niceness</link>, to change the CPU priority.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-no-rebuild-on-fail">no-rebuild-on-fail</link>, to avoid running &make; again if it fails.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-qtdir">qtdir</link>, to set the path to &Qt;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-set-env">set-env</link>, to set an environment variable.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-source-dir">source-dir</link>, to change where to download the source code to.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-stop-on-failure">stop-on-failure</link>, to make &kdesvn-build; stop as soon as a failure is encountered.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="conf-svn-server">svn-server</link>, to change the server the sources are downloaded from.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>
