=head1 Perl Upgrade Notes

As Perl 5 evolves, they gain features that may be useful to adopt in
kdesrc-build.

This notes some of the important ones for consideration, for molding into
modules/ksb.pm (which is the base package imported by all Perl-using code) or
usage elsewhere.

Currently we require 5.28 as a minimum.

=head2 Release Dates

This shows release dates for versions of Perl we don't yet mandate as a guide
to when it might make sense to bump the Perl requirement for mainline
development.

=over

=item *

Perl 5.36 was released 28 May 2022

=item *

Perl 5.34 was released 20 May 2021

=item *

Perl 5.32 was released 20 June 2020

=item *

Perl 5.30 was released 19 May 2019

=item *

Perl 5.28 was released 22 June 2018 and is the I<currently mandated version> of Perl.

=back

=head2 Per-version notes

=head3 For 5.12

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5120delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

New package decl syntax "package Foo v1.24"

=item *

"use 5.18.0" will enable *both* `strict` and extra features for that version.

=item *

`each keys value` functions all work on arrays now.

=item *

filehandles are always in IO::File.

=item *

`use parent` available.

=item *

Consider `autodie`

=item *

Consider `IPC::Cmd` to replace slurp\_program\_output and friends.

=back

=head3 For 5.14

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5140delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Consider `unicode_strings` pragmas?

=item *

Non-destructive subs: my $old = $new =~ s/foo/bar/r; (/r flag important!)

=item *

ARRAY / HASH FUNCTIONS OPERATE DIRECTLY ON REFS :) :)

=item *

package syntax supports BLOCKs now (package Foo v1.2 { ... } does what it looks like)

=item *

`given` now has a return value, making `when` statements useful.

=back

=head3 For 5.16

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5160delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

__SUB__ token references current subroutine (useful for logging)

=back

=head3 For 5.18

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5180delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Lexical subs (e.g. my sub foobar { my @foo = @\_ }, etc.).

=item *

Can use 'computed gotos' for next, last, redo (i.e. switch at runtime)

=back

=head3 For 5.20

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5200delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Function signatures (experimental): sub foo($a, $b) { # use $a, $b }

=item *

%hash{},%array[] syntax that returns a hash (perldata Key/Value Hash Slices)

=item *

Postfix Deref (experimental): $aref->@*, $href->%{key}, etc.

=item *

use locale supports UTF-8 locales.

=back

=head3 For 5.22

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5220delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Something about numeric/string bitwise operators.

=item *

Safer <<>> operator

=item *

re strict flag (experimental)

=item *

re non-capture flag

=item *

'constant functions' (experimental, perlsub Constant Functions)

=back

=head3 For 5.24

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5240delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Postfix Deref no longer experimental and always enabled.

=back

=head3 For 5.26

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5260delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Experiment to create references to scalar vars ('declared_refs')

=item *

Indented here docs (<<~FOO)

=item *

Lexical subs are no longer experimental

=back

=head3 For 5.28

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5280delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Bitwise operators enabled by default.

=item *

Can delete key/value hash slices

=back

=head3 For 5.30

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5300delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Nothing big

=back

=head3 For 5.32

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5320delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

Can turn off indirect object syntax (no feature 'indirect')

=item *

Experiment to add 'isa' core operator.

=item *

Chained comparison

=back

=head3 For 5.34

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5340delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

try/catch syntax

=back

=head3 For 5.36

See L<perldelta for this version|https://perldoc.perl.org/perl5360delta> for more detail.

=over

=item *

C<isa> and various other features we don't use are now enabled by default

=item *

You can iterate multiple variables at a time through lists and hashes using the
experimental C<for_list> feature.

 for my ($key, $value) (%hash) { ... }

Seems handy!

=item *

Some new builtin functions under the C<builtin> namespace. Of note are C<trim>,
C<indexed>, functions relating to reference weakening (something we do zero of
but apparently can help save memory) and C<ceil> / C<floor>.

=item *

C<defer> blocks have been added, saving one from having to write an entire Perl
package just to run a C<DESTROY> block on a blessed reference to get RAII-style
semantics or scope guards.

=item *

The experimental try/catch stuff can have a C<finally> block as well now.

=back
