<chapter id="getting-started">
<title>Getting Started</title>

<para>
In this chapter, we show how to use the &kdesrc-build; to checkout modules from
the &kde; repository and build them. We also provide a basic explanation of the
&kde; source code structure and the steps you have to perform before running
the script.
</para>

<para>
All topics present in this chapter are covered with even more detail in the
<ulink url="https://community.kde.org/Guidelines_and_HOWTOs/Build_from_source">
Build from Source</ulink> article, at the
<ulink url="https://community.kde.org/">&kde; Community Wiki</ulink>.
If you are compiling &kde; for the first time, it is a good idea to read
it, or consult it as a reference source. You will find detailed information
about packaging tools and requirements, common compilation pitfalls and
strategies and information about running your new &kde; installation.
</para>

<sect1 id="before-building">
<title>Preparing the System to Build &kde;</title>

<sect2 id="before-building-users">
<title>Setup a new user account</title>

<para>
It is recommended that you use a different user account to build, install,
and run your &kde; software from, since less permissions are required, and
to avoid interfering with your distribution's packages.
If you already have &kde; packages installed, the best choice
would be to create a different (dedicated) user to build and run the new &kde;.
</para>

<tip><para>Leaving your system &kde; untouched also allows you to have an
emergency fallback in case a coding mistake causes your latest software build
to be unusable.
</para></tip>

<para>
You can do also setup to install to a system-wide directory (&eg; <filename
class="directory">/usr/src/local</filename>) if you wish. This document
does not cover this installation type, since we assume you know what you are doing.
</para>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="before-building-preparation">
<title>Ensure your system is ready to build &kde; software</title>

<para>Before using the &kdesrc-build; script (or any other building
strategy) you must install the development tools and libraries needed for &kde;.
The nearly complete list of required tools can be found from
the <ulink url="https://community.kde.org/Guidelines_and_HOWTOs/Build_from_source#Install_required_devel_packages">&kde;
Community Wiki Build Requirements</ulink> page.
</para>

<para>Here is a list of some of the things you will need:</para>
<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>You will need &cmake;, this software is what &kde; uses to handle
build-time configuration of the source code and generation of the specific build
commands for your system.  The required version will vary
depending on what versions of &kde; software you are building (see TechBase for
specifics), but with modern distributions the &cmake; included with your distribution
should be quite sufficient.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>You must also install the source control clients needed to checkout
the &kde; source code. This means you need at least the following:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>The <ulink url="https://git-scm.com/">Git
source control manager</ulink>, which is used for all &kde; <ulink
url=" https://commits.kde.org/">source code</ulink></para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Although it is not required, the <ulink
url="http://bazaar.canonical.com/">Bazaar</ulink> source control manager is
used for a single module (libdbusmenu-qt) that is required for the &kde;
libraries. Most users can install this library through their distribution
packages but &kdesrc-build; supports building it as well if you desire. But to
build libdbusmenu-qt, you must have Bazaar installed.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>

<listitem><para>The Perl scripting language is required for &kdesrc-build;, some &kde;
repositories, and &Qt; (if you build that from source).</para>

<para>The Perl that comes with your distribution should be suitable (it needs to be at
least Perl 5.14), but you will also need some additional modules (&kdesrc-build;
will warn if they are not present):</para>

<itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>IO::Socket::SSL</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>JSON::PP or JSON::XS</para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>YAML::PP, YAML::XS, or YAML::Syck</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>

<listitem><para>You will need a full C++ development environment (compiler, standard library, runtime,
and any required development packages).  The minimum required versions vary based on the &kde; module:
the &kde; Frameworks 5 collection supports the oldest compilers, while &kde; Plasma 5 and &kde; Applications
tend to require more recent compilers.</para>
<para>The GCC 4.8 or Clang 4 compilers are the minimum recommended.  Many distributions support easily
installing these tools using a <quote>build-essentials</quote> package, an option to install
"build dependencies" with &Qt;, or similar features.  The KDE Community Wiki has a page <ulink url="https://community.kde.org/Guidelines_and_HOWTOs/Build_from_source/Install_the_dependencies">tracking
recommended packages for major distributions</ulink>.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem><para>You will need a build tool that actually performs the
compilation steps (as generated by &cmake;). GNU Make is recommended and should
be available through your package manager. &cmake; does support others options, such
as the &ninja; build tool, which can be used by &kdesrc-build; using the
<link linkend="conf-custom-build-command">custom-build-command</link> configuration file
option.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Finally, you will need the appropriate &Qt; libraries (including development packages)
for the version of &kde; software you are building.  &kdesrc-build; does not officially support building &Qt; 5 (the current major version), so it is recommended to use your distribution's development packages or to
see the KDE Community wiki page on <ulink url="https://community.kde.org/Guidelines_and_HOWTOs/Build_from_source/OwnQt5">self-building Qt 5</ulink>.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<note><para>Most operating system distributions include a method of easily
installing required development tools. Consult the Community Wiki page <ulink
url="https://community.kde.org/Guidelines_and_HOWTOs/Build_from_source#Install_required_devel_packages"
>Required devel packages</ulink> to see
if these instructions are already available.</para></note>

<important><para>
Some of these packages are divided into libraries (or programs or utilities),
and development packages. You will need at least the program or library
<emphasis>and</emphasis> its development package.
</para></important>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="before-building-prepare-script">
<title>Setup &kdesrc-build;</title>

<sect3 id="get-kdesrc-build">
<title>Install &kdesrc-build;</title>
<para>
The &kde; developers make frequent changes to &kdesrc-build; to keep it in
sync with advances in &kde; development, including improvements to the
recommended &kdesrc-build; configuration, added modules, improving &cmake;
flags, &etc;</para>

<para>Because of this, we recommend obtaining &kdesrc-build; directly from its
source repository and then periodically updating it.</para>

<para>You can obtain &kdesrc-build; from its source repository by running:</para>
<programlisting>
<prompt>$ </prompt><userinput><command>git <option>clone</option> <option>https://invent.kde.org/sdk/kdesrc-build.git</option> <option><filename class="directory"><replaceable>~/kdesrc-build</replaceable></filename></option></command></userinput>
</programlisting>

<para>Replace <option><replaceable>~/kdesrc-build</replaceable></option> with
the directory you would like to install to.
</para>

<para>You can update &kdesrc-build; later by running:</para>
<programlisting>
<prompt>$ </prompt><userinput><command>cd <option><filename class="directory"><replaceable>~/kdesrc-build</replaceable></filename></option></command></userinput>
<prompt>$ </prompt><userinput><command>git <option>pull</option></command></userinput>
</programlisting>

<tip><para>We recommend adding the &kdesrc-build; installation directory to
your <envar>PATH</envar> environment variable, so that you can run &kdesrc-build;
without having to fully specify its path every time.</para></tip>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="setup-rcfile">
<title>Prepare the configuration file</title>

<para>&kdesrc-build; uses a <link linkend="configure-data">configuration file</link>
to control which modules are built, where they are installed to, etc.
This file is located at <filename>~/.config/kdesrc-buildrc</filename>
(<filename>$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/kdesrc-buildrc</filename>, if
<envar>$XDG_CONFIG_HOME</envar> is set).</para>

<para>You can use <application>kdesrc-build --generate-config</application> in order to prepare a simple
kdesrc-build configuration. You can then edit the
<filename>~/.config/kdesrc-buildrc</filename> configuration file to make
any changes you see fit.</para>

<sect4 id="setup-rcfile-manually">
<title>Manual setup of configuration file</title>

<para>You can also setup your configuration file manually, by copying the
included sample configuration file <filename>kdesrc-buildrc-kf5-sample</filename>
to <filename>~/.config/kdesrc-buildrc</filename> and then editing the file.
<xref linkend="kdesrc-buildrc"/> will be a useful reference for this, especially
its <link linkend="conf-options-table">table of configuration options</link>.
</para>

<para>&kdesrc-build; contains many recommended configuration files to support
&kde; Frameworks 5, &plasma; 5, and other &kde; applications. See
<xref linkend="kdesrc-buildrc-including"/> for information on how to use other
configuration files from your own <filename>kdesrc-buildrc</filename>.
</para>

<para>You can find more information about the syntax of the <link
linkend="configure-data">configuration file</link> in <xref
linkend="configure-data" /> and in <xref linkend="kdesrc-buildrc" />.
</para>
</sect4>
</sect3>
</sect2>
</sect1>

&configure-data;

&building-and-troubleshooting;

&building-specific-modules;

&environment;

<sect1 id="kde-modules-and-selection">
<title>Module Organization and selection</title>

<sect2 id="kde-layers">
<title>KDE Software Organization</title>

<para>
&kde; software is split into different components, many of which can be built
by &kdesrc-build;. Understanding this organization will help you properly
select the software modules that you want built.
</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem><para>At the lowest level comes the &Qt; library, which is a
very powerful, cross-platform <quote>toolkit</quote> library. &kde; is based on
&Qt;, and some of the non-&kde; libraries required by &kde; are also based on
&Qt;. &kdesrc-build; can build &Qt;, or use the one already installed on your
system if it is a recent enough version.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>On top of &Qt; are required libraries that are necessary for
&kde; software to work. Some of these libraries are not considered part of
&kde; itself due to their generic nature, but are still essential to the &kde;
Platform. These libraries are collected under a <literal>kdesupport</literal>
module grouping but are not considered part of the <quote>Frameworks</quote>
libraries.</para>
</listitem>

<listitem><para>On top of these essential libraries come the <ulink
url="https://community.kde.org/Frameworks">&kde; Frameworks</ulink>, sometimes
abbreviated as KF5, which are essential libraries for the &kde; Plasma desktop,
&kde; Applications, and other third-party software.
</para> </listitem>

<listitem><para>On top of the Frameworks, come several different things:</para>
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para><quote>Third-party</quote> applications. These are
        applications that use the &kde; Frameworks or are designed to run under
        &kde; Plasma but are not authored by or in association with the &kde;
        project.</para></listitem>

        <listitem><para>Plasma, which is a full <quote>workspace</quote> desktop
        environment. This is what users normally see when they <quote>log-in to
        &kde;</quote>.</para></listitem>

        <listitem><para>The &kde; Application suite. This is a collection of
        useful software included with the Platform and &plasma; Desktop, grouped into
        individual modules, including utilities like &dolphin;, games like
        <application>KSudoku</application>, and productivity software released by &kde;
        such as &kontact;.</para></listitem>

        <listitem><para>Finally, there is a collection of software (also
        collected in modules) whose development is supported by &kde; resources
        (such as translation, source control, bug tracking, &etc;) but is not
        released by &kde; as part of Plasma or the Application suite. These
        modules are known as <quote>Extragear</quote>.
        </para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="selecting-modules">
<title>Selecting modules to build</title>

<para>Selecting which of the possible modules to build is controlled by
<link linkend="kdesrc-buildrc">the configuration file</link>.
After the <literal>global</literal> section is a list of modules to build,
bracketed by module ... end module lines. An example entry for a module is
shown in <xref linkend="conf-module-example"/>.</para>

<example id="conf-module-example">
<title>Example module entry in the configuration file</title>
<programlisting>
module <replaceable>kdesrc-build-git</replaceable>
    # Options for this module go here, example:
    <link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link> kde:kdesrc-build
    <link linkend="conf-make-options">make-options</link> -j4 # Run 4 compiles at a time
end module
</programlisting>
</example>

<note><para>In practice, this module construct is not usually used directly.  Instead
most modules are specified via module-sets as described below.</para></note>

<para>When using only <literal>module</literal> entries, &kdesrc-build; builds them in the order
you list, and does not attempt to download any other repositories other than what you specify
directly.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="module-sets">
<title>Module Sets</title>

<para>The &kde; source code is decomposed into a great number of relatively
small Git-based repositories. To make it easier to manage the large number of
repositories involved in any useful &kde;-based install, &kdesrc-build; supports
grouping multiple modules and treating the group as a <quote>module set</quote>.
</para>

<sect3 id="module-set-concept">
<title>The basic module set concept</title>

<para>By using a module set, you can quickly declare many Git modules to be
downloaded and built, as if you'd typed out a separate module declaration for
each one. The <link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link> option is
handled specially to setup where each module is downloaded from, and every
other option contained in the module set is copied to every module generated
in this fashion.</para>

<example id="example-using-module-sets">
<title>Using module sets</title>
<programlisting>
global
    <option><link linkend="conf-git-repository-base">git-repository-base</link></option> <replaceable>kde-git</replaceable> <replaceable>kde:</replaceable>
end global

module <replaceable>qt</replaceable>
    # Options removed for brevity
end module

module-set <replaceable>kde-support-libs</replaceable>
    <option><link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link></option> <replaceable>kde-git</replaceable>
    <option><link linkend="conf-use-modules">use-modules</link></option> <replaceable>automoc</replaceable> <replaceable>attica</replaceable> <replaceable>akonadi</replaceable>
end module-set

# Other modules as necessary...
module <replaceable>kdesupport</replaceable>
end module
</programlisting>
</example>

<para>In <xref linkend="example-using-module-sets"/> a brief module set is
shown.  When &kdesrc-build; encounters this module set, it acts as if, for
every module given in <option>use-modules</option>, that an individual module
has been declared, with its <option>repository</option> equal to the
module-set's <option>repository</option> followed immediately by the given
module name.</para>

<para>In addition, other options can be passed in a module set, which are
copied to every new module that is created this way. By using module-set it is
possible to quickly declare many Git modules that are all based on the same
repository URL. In addition, it is possible to give module-sets a name (as shown
in the example), which allows you to quickly refer to the entire group of
modules from the command line.</para>

</sect3>
<sect3 id="module-sets-kde">
<title>Special Support for KDE module sets</title>

<para>The module set support described so far is general to any Git-based
modules. For the &kde; Git repositories, &kdesrc-build; includes additional
features to make things easier for users and developers.  This support is
enabled by specifying <literal>kde-projects</literal> as the
<option>repository</option> for the module set.
</para>

<para>&kdesrc-build; normally only builds the modules you have listed in your
configuration file, in the order you list them.  But with a
<literal>kde-projects</literal> module set, &kdesrc-build; can do dependency
resolution of &kde;-specific modules, and in addition automatically include
modules into the build even if only indirectly specified.</para>

<example id="example-using-kde-module-sets">
<title>Using kde-projects module sets</title>
<programlisting>
# Only adds a module for juk (the kde/kdemultimedia/juk repo)
module-set <replaceable>juk-set</replaceable>
    <option>repository</option> kde-projects
    <option>use-modules</option> <replaceable>juk</replaceable>
end module-set

# Adds all modules that are in kde/multimedia/*, including juk,
# but no other dependencies
module-set <replaceable>multimedia-set</replaceable>
    <option>repository</option> kde-projects
    <option>use-modules</option> <replaceable>kde/multimedia</replaceable>
end module-set

# Adds all modules that are in kde/multimedia/*, and all kde-projects
# dependencies from outside of kde/kdemultimedia
module-set <replaceable>multimedia-deps-set</replaceable>
    <option>repository</option> kde-projects
    <option>use-modules</option> <replaceable>kde/multimedia</replaceable>
    <option>include-dependencies</option> <replaceable>true</replaceable>
end module-set

# All modules created out of these three module sets are automatically put in
# proper dependency order, regardless of the setting for include-dependencies
</programlisting>
</example>

<tip><para>This <literal>kde-projects</literal> module set construct is the main method
of declaring which modules you want to build.</para></tip>

<para>All module sets use the <link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link>
and <link linkend="conf-use-modules">use-modules</link> options.  <link
linkend="kde-projects-module-sets"><literal>kde-projects</literal></link> module
sets have a predefined <option>repository</option> value, but other types of
module sets also will use the <link
linkend="conf-git-repository-base">git-repository-base</link> option.
</para>
</sect3>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kde-projects-module-sets">
<title>The official &kde; module database</title>

<para>&kde;'s Git repositories allow for grouping related Git modules into
collections of related modules (e.g. kdegraphics). Git doesn't recognize these
groupings, but &kdesrc-build; can understand these groups, using <link
linkend="module-sets">module sets</link> with a <option>repository</option>
option set to <quote><literal>kde-projects</literal></quote>.</para>

<para>&kdesrc-build; will recognize that the <literal>kde-projects</literal>
repository requires special handling, and adjust the build process
appropriately.  Among other things, &kdesrc-build; will:</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>Download the latest module database from the <ulink
url=" https://commits.kde.org/">&kde; git archive</ulink>.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Try to find a module with the name given in the module set's
<option>use-modules</option> setting in that database.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>For every module that is found, &kdesrc-build; will lookup the
appropriate repository in the database, based upon the <link
linkend="conf-branch-group">branch-group</link> setting in effect.  If a
repository exists and is active for the branch group, &kdesrc-build; will
automatically use that to download or update the source code.
</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

<note><para>In the current database, some module groups not only have a
collection of modules, but they <emphasis>also</emphasis> declare their own
&git; repository. In these situations &kdesrc-build; will currently prefer the
group's &git; repository instead of including the childrens' repositories.
</para></note>

<para>The following example shows how to use the &kde; module database to
install the Phonon multimedia library.</para>

<informalexample>
<programlisting>
module-set <replaceable>media-support</replaceable>
    # This option must be kde-projects to use the module database.
    <option><link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link></option> <literal>kde-projects</literal>

    # This option chooses what modules to look for in the database.
    <option><link linkend="conf-use-modules">use-modules</link></option> <replaceable>phonon/phonon</replaceable> <replaceable>phonon-gstreamer</replaceable> <replaceable>phonon-vlc</replaceable>
end module-set
</programlisting>
</informalexample>

<tip><para><literal>phonon/phonon</literal> is used since (with the current
project database) &kdesrc-build; would otherwise have to decide between the
group of projects called <quote>phonon</quote> or the individual project named
<quote>phonon</quote>. Currently &kdesrc-build; would pick the former, which
would build many more backends than needed.</para></tip>

<para>The following example is perhaps more realistic, and shows a feature only
available with the &kde; module database: Building all of the &kde; graphics
applications with only a single declaration.</para>

<informalexample>
<programlisting>
module-set <replaceable>kdegraphics</replaceable>
    # This option must be kde-projects to use the module database.
    <option><link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link></option> <literal>kde-projects</literal>

    # This option chooses what modules to look for in the database.
    <option><link linkend="conf-use-modules">use-modules</link></option> <literal>kdegraphics/libs</literal> <literal>kdegraphics/*</literal>
end module-set
</programlisting>
</informalexample>

<para>There are two important abilities demonstrated here:</para>

<orderedlist>

<listitem><para>&kdesrc-build; allows you to specify modules that are
descendents of a given module, without building the parent module, by using the
syntax <userinput><replaceable>module-name</replaceable>/*</userinput>. It is
actually required in this case since the base module, kdegraphics, is marked as
inactive so that it is not accidentally built along with its children modules.
Specifying the descendent modules allows &kdesrc-build; to skip around the
disabled module.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>&kdesrc-build; will also not add a given module to the build
list more than once. This allows us to manually set
<literal>kdegraphics/libs</literal> to build first, before the rest of
<literal>kdegraphics</literal>, without trying to build
<literal>kdegraphics/libs</literal> twice.  This used to be required for proper
dependency handling, and today remains a fallback option in case the &kde;
project database is missing dependency metadata.
</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="ignoring-project-modules">
<title>Filtering out &kde; project modules</title>

<para>You might decide that you'd like to build all programs within a &kde;
module grouping <emphasis>except</emphasis> for a given program.</para>

<para>For instance, the <literal>kdeutils</literal> group includes a program
named <application>kremotecontrol</application>. If your computer does not have
the proper hardware to receive the signals sent by remote controls then you may
decide that you'd rather not download, build, and install
<application>kremotecontrol</application> every time you update
<literal>kdeutils</literal>.</para>

<para>You can achieve this by using the <link
linkend="conf-ignore-modules">ignore-modules</link> configuration option.
On the command line the
<link linkend="ignoring-modules">&cmd-ignore-modules; option</link>
does the same thing, but is more convenient for filtering out a module just once.
</para>

<example id="example-ignoring-a-module">
<title>Example for ignoring a kde-project module in a group</title>
<programlisting>
module-set <replaceable>utils</replaceable>
    <option><link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link></option> <literal>kde-projects</literal>

    # This option chooses what modules to look for in the database.
    <option><link linkend="conf-use-modules">use-modules</link></option> <replaceable>kdeutils</replaceable>

    # This option "subtracts out" modules from the modules chosen by use-modules, above.
    <option><link linkend="conf-ignore-modules">ignore-modules</link></option> <replaceable>kremotecontrol</replaceable>
end module-set

module-set <replaceable>graphics</replaceable>
    <option><link linkend="conf-repository">repository</link></option> <literal>kde-projects</literal>

    # This option chooses what modules to look for in the database.
    <option><link linkend="conf-use-modules">use-modules</link></option> <replaceable>extragear/graphics</replaceable>

    # This option "subtracts out" modules from the modules chosen by use-modules, above.
    # In this case, *both* extragear/graphics/kipi-plugins and
    # extragear/graphics/kipi-plugins/kipi-plugins-docs are ignored
    <option><link linkend="conf-ignore-modules">ignore-modules</link></option> <replaceable>extragear/graphics/kipi-plugins</replaceable>
end module-set
</programlisting>
</example>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="quick-start-conclusion">
<title>Getting Started Conclusion</title>
<para>These are the major features and concepts needed to get started with
&kdesrc-build;</para>

<para>For additional information, you could keep reading through this
documentation. In particular, the <link linkend="supported-cmdline-params">list
of command-line options</link> and the <link linkend="conf-options-table">table
of configuration file options</link> are useful references.</para>

<para>The &kde; Community also maintains <ulink
url="https://community.kde.org/Guidelines_and_HOWTOs/Build_from_source">an
online Wiki reference for how to build the source code</ulink>, which refers to
&kdesrc-build; and includes tips and other guidelines on how to use the
tool.</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>
