<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<!--
    Man page for kdesrc-build.
    Copyright (c) 2011, 2014, 2015 Michael Pyne <mpyne@kde.org>

    Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
    the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later
    version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
    Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the
    license is included in COPYING.DOC.
 -->

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>&kde; User's Manual</title>
<author>
    <personname><firstname>Michael</firstname><surname>Pyne</surname></personname>
    <email>mpyne@kde.org</email>
    <personblurb><para>Authored man page</para></personblurb>
</author>
<date>2015-03-07</date>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>kdesrc-build</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
<refmiscinfo class="version">1.16</refmiscinfo>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
    <refname><command>kdesrc-build</command></refname>
    <refpurpose>Downloads, builds and installs &kde; software.</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="_synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kdesrc-build</command>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>OPTIONS</replaceable></arg>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>Module name | Module set name</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>DESCRIPTION</title>

<para>The <command>kdesrc-build</command> command is used in order to build
&kde; software directly from its source repositories. It can download from
Subversion or Git repositories, interfaces with the &kde; project database, and
supports controlling which options are passed to <command>make</command>(1) and
<command>cmake</command>(1). The operation of <command>kdesrc-build</command>
is driven by a configuration file, typically
<filename>~/.kdesrc-buildrc</filename>.</para>

<para>The <replaceable>module name</replaceable> or <replaceable>module set
name</replaceable> as given on the command line should be as those names were
defined in the configuration file (either in a <symbol>module</symbol>
definition or <option>use-modules</option> declaration, or in a
<option>module-set</option> definition). In addition, it can be the name of a
&kde; module listed in the &kde; project database (and you can precede the
module name with <symbol>+</symbol> to force this).</para>

<para><command>kdesrc-build</command> is designed to be able to be completely
headless (however, see <emphasis role="strong">ENVIRONMENT</emphasis>), and so
typically ignores its input completely. Command output is logged instead of
being shown on the kdesrc-build output.</para>

<para>Modules are built one after the other. If a module fails to update then
it is not built. <command>kdesrc-build</command> will not abort just because of
a module failure, instead it will keep trying to update and build subsequent
modules. By default, <command>kdesrc-build</command> will commence building a
module as soon as the source code update is complete for that module, even if
other updates are occurring concurrently.</para>

<para>At the end <command>kdesrc-build</command> will show which modules failed
to build, and where the logs were kept for that build run.</para> </refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>OPTIONS</title>

<para><emphasis role="strong">NOTE</emphasis>: Some options have short forms,
but the <command>kdesrc-build</command> option parser does not support
combining short options into one at this point. (E.g. running
<option>kdesrc-build -pv</option> would not be the same as
<option>kdesrc-build --pretend --verbose</option>).</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-h, --help</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Shows a brief synopsis and frequently-used command line options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-p, --pretend</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Operate in a "dry run" mode. No network accesses are made, no log files are
    created, no modules are built, and no other permanent changes to disk are
    made. One <emphasis>important exception</emphasis> is that if you try to
    build a module that comes from the &kde; project database, and the
    database hasn't been downloaded yet, the database will be downloaded
    since the pretend-mode output may change significantly based on the
    database results.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--install</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Skips the update and build phase and immediately attempts to install the
    modules given.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--uninstall</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Skips the update and build phase and immediately attempts to uninstall the
    modules given. <emphasis role="strong">NOTE</emphasis>: This is only
    supported for buildsystems that supports the <command>make
    uninstall</command> command (e.g. &kde; CMake-based).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-src</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Skips the source update phase. Other phases are included as normal.
    <option>--no-svn</option> is a deprecated alias for this option and will be
    removed in a future release.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-metadata</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Skips the metadata update phase for KDE modules. Other phases (including
    the source update phase) are included as normal. If you wish to avoid all network
    updates you should also pass <option>--no-src</option>.
</para>

<para>
    This option can be useful if you are frequently running
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> since the metadata itself does not change
    very often.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-install</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Skips the install phase from the build. Other phases are included as
    normal.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-build</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Skips the build phase for the build. Internally the install phase depends
    on the build phase completing so this is effectively equivalent to
    <option>--src-only</option>, but the semantics may change in the future
    (e.g. when test suites are moved into their own phase).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-tests</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Disables running the test suite for CMake-based modules. To be fully
    effective this requires re-running CMake, which can be forced by using the
    <option>--reconfigure</option> or <option>--refresh-build</option> options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--src-only</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Only performs the source update phase, does not build or install.
    <option>--svn-only</option> is a deprecated alias for this option and will
    be removed in a future release.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--build-only</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Forces the build process to be performed without updating source code
    first. In addition, installation is not performed. (Testing is still
    performed if applicable, but this will change in a future release)
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--metadata-only</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Only updates the build metadata needed for KDE modules, then exits. This is
    useful to allow the <option>--pretend</option> option to work if you've never
    run kdesrc-build. See also <option>--no-metadata</option>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--refresh-build</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Removes the build directory for a module before the build phase starts.
    This has the desired side effect of forcing <command>kdesrc-build</command> to re-configure
    the module and build it from a "pristine" state with no existing temporary
    or intermediate output files. Use this option if you have problems getting
    a module to build but realize it will take longer (possibly much longer)
    for the build to complete as a result. When in doubt use this option for
    the entire <command>kdesrc-build</command> run.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--reconfigure</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Force CMake to be re-run, but without deleting the build directory.
    Usually you actually want <option>--refresh-build</option>, but if you are
    100% sure your change to <option>cmake-options</option> will not
    invalidate your current intermediate output then this can save some time.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--build-system-only</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Interrupts the build process for each module built: The build process
    consists of normal setup up to and including running
    <command>cmake</command> or <command>configure</command> (as appropriate),
    but <command>make</command> is not run and no installation
    is attempted. This is mostly only useful to get things like
    <command>configure --help</command> and <command>cmake-gui</command> to
    work. Normally you want <option>--reconfigure</option> or
    <option>--refresh-build</option>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--resume-from=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Use this option to skip module processing until the module
    <replaceable>foo</replaceable> is encountered.
    <replaceable>foo</replaceable> and all subsequent modules will be processed
    normally as if they had been specified on the command line. If you use this
    option because of a build failure you may want to consider using
    <option>--no-src</option> in addition to skip the resultant source update
    phase.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--resume-after=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This is just like <option>--resume-from</option>, except that the module
    <replaceable>foo</replaceable> is <emphasis>not</emphasis> included in the
    list of modules to consider. You might use this if you've manually
    built/installed foo after fixing the build and just want to resume from
    there.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--resume</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This option can be used to run <command>kdesrc-build</command> after it has
    had a build failure.
</para>

<para>
    It resumes the build from the module that failed, using the list of modules
    that were waiting to be built before, and disables source and metadata
    updates as well. The use case is when a simple mistake or missing
    dependency causes the build failure. Once you correct the error you can
    quickly get back into building the modules you were building before,
    without fiddling with <option>--resume-from</option> and
    <option>--stop-before</option>.
</para>

<para>
    This is even handier with the <option>--stop-on-failure</option> option,
    especially if you're initially setting up your development environment.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--stop-before=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This is similar to the <option>--resume-from</option> flag. This option
    causes the module list for the given build to be truncated just
    <emphasis>before</emphasis> <replaceable>foo</replaceable> would normally
    have been built. <replaceable>foo</replaceable> is <emphasis>not</emphasis>
    built (but see <option>--stop-after</option>).
</para>

<para>
    This flag may be used with <option>--resume-from</option> or
    <option>--resume-after</option>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--stop-after=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This is just like <option>--stop-before</option>, except that the given module
    <emphasis>is</emphasis> included in the build.
</para>

<para>
    This flag may be used with <option>--resume-from</option> or
    <option>--resume-after</option>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--include-dependencies</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This causes <command>kdesrc-build</command> to include not only the modules
    it would normally build (either because they were specified on the command
    line, or mentioned in the configuration file), but also to include
    <emphasis>known dependencies</emphasis> of those modules in the build.
</para>

<para>
    Dependencies are <quote>known</quote> to <command>kdesrc-build</command> based on the
    contents of the special <emphasis>kde-build-metadata</emphasis> git
    repository, which is managed for you by the script (see also the
    <option>--metadata-only</option> option). The KDE community keeps the
    dependency information in that module up to date, so if
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> appears to show the wrong dependencies then
    it may be due to missing or incorrect dependency information.
</para>

<para>
    All known dependencies will be included, which may be more than you need.
    Consider using the <option>--resume-from</option> option (and similar
    options) to control the build list when using this option.
</para>

<para>
    To see just the list of modules that would be built, use <option>--print-modules</option> or
    <option>--pretend</option>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--stop-on-failure</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This option causes the build to abort as soon as a failure occurs. Useful when you're setting
    up your initial development environment. Without this flag, <command>kdesrc-build</command>
    will try to press on with the rest of the modules in the build to avoid wasting time in case
    the problem is with a single module.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--ignore-modules</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Forces <emphasis role="strong">ALL</emphasis> modules that follow this
    option to be excluded from consideration by
    <command>kdesrc-build</command>. This might be useful if you know you want
    to process all modules except for specific exceptions.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--rc-file=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Use the given file, <replaceable>foo</replaceable>, for the configuration
    instead of <filename>~/.kdesrc-buildrc</filename> or
    <filename>./kdesrc-buildrc</filename>. The file can be empty, but must
    exist.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--prefix=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Overrides the <option>kdedir</option> setting to be
    <replaceable>foo</replaceable> for this run. In addition, implies
    <option>--reconfigure</option>. It <emphasis>does not</emphasis> actually
    perform the action you would think it does (overriding the
    <option>prefix</option> option to change where modules are installed),
    although by default modules are installed to the <option>kdedir</option>
    setting if <option>prefix</option> is not set.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--nice=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Changes the CPU priority given to <command>kdesrc-build</command> (and all
    processes used by <command>kdesrc-build</command> e.g.
    <command>make</command>(1)). <replaceable>foo</replaceable> should be an
    integer number between -20 and 19. Positive values are "nicer" to the rest
    of the system (i.e.  lower priority).
</para>

<para>
    Note that the possible priorities available on your system may be different
    than listed here, see <command>nice</command>(2) for more information. Note
    also that this only changes <emphasis>CPU</emphasis> priority, often you
    want to change <emphasis>I/O</emphasis> priority on systems where that is
    supported. There is no command-line option for I/O priority adjustment, but
    there is a configuration file option: <option>use-idle-io-priority</option>
    (although like all options, there is a generic way to set this from the
    command line).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--run=<replaceable>foo</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Runs the program named by <replaceable>foo</replaceable> using
    <command>kdesrc-build</command>'s normal build environment. All command
    line arguments present after this option are passed to
    <replaceable>foo</replaceable> as it is run.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--print-modules</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Takes all actions up to and including dependency reordering of the modules
    specified on the command line (or configuration file), prints the modules
    that would be processed one per line, and then exits without further action.
</para>

<para>
    The <literal>kde-project</literal> metadata is downloaded first (though, see
    <option>--pretend</option> or <option>--no-src</option>).
</para>

<para>
    The output is not fully compatible with usage by scripts as other output messages
    may be generated until the module list is shown.
</para>

<para>
    This is mostly just useful for quickly determining what
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> understands a module's dependencies to be,
    which means it's only useful for <literal>kde-projects</literal> modules.
    This option is also compatible with <option>--resume-from</option>,
    <option>--resume-after</option>, <option>--stop-before</option>, and
    <option>--stop-after</option>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--color</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Enables "colorful output". (Enabled by default).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-color</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Disables "colorful output". This can be made permanent by setting the
    <option>colorful-output</option> option to false (or 0) in your
    configuration file.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--async</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Have <command>kdesrc-build</command> start the build process for a module
    as soon as the source code has finished downloading. Without this option
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> performs all source updates at once and
    only then starts with the build process. This option is enabled by default.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-async</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Disables asynchronous building of modules. See <option>--async</option> for
    a more detailed description. Note that <command>kdesrc-build</command>'s
    output will be slightly different in this mode.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-v, --verbose</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Increases the level of verbosity of <command>kdesrc-build</command> output
    (which is already fairly verbose!)
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-q, --quiet</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Makes <command>kdesrc-build</command> less noisy. Only important messages
    are shown.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--really-quiet</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Makes <command>kdesrc-build</command> even less noisy. Only warnings/errors
    are shown.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--debug</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This will fill your terminal with descriptions and debugging output,
    usually unintelligible, describing what <command>kdesrc-build</command> is
    doing (and thinks it should be doing). The flag is included since the
    output may sometimes prove useful for debugging.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--force-build</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Normally when <command>kdesrc-build</command> notices that there is no
    source update on a module which was previously successfully installed, it
    does not attempt to build or install that module. You can pass this flag to
    disable that behavior and always run <command>make</command>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--no-snapshots</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Normally <command>kdesrc-build</command> supports using source repository
    tarball snapshots to reduce load on &kde; infrastructure for git clones for
    some &kde; modules.  Passing this option disables this feature.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--delete-my-patches</option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This option must be passed to allow <command>kdesrc-build</command> to
    remove conflicting source directories. Currently even this only happens
    when trying to clone a git-based module if an existing source directory is
    present.  Never specify this option unless it is suggested by
    <command>kdesrc-build</command>, and only if you don't mind the source
    directories that are referenced being deleted and re-cloned.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--<replaceable>foo</replaceable>=<replaceable>bar</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Any option not listed above is checked to see if it matches the list of
    possible configuration file options. If so, the configuration file option
    <option>foo</option> is temporarily set to <option>bar</option> for the
    duration of this run.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--set-module-option-value=<replaceable>module</replaceable>,<replaceable>foo</replaceable>,<replaceable>bar</replaceable></option>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Like above, but option <option>foo</option> is only set to
    <option>bar</option> for the module <option>module</option>.  This does not
    work for module sets yet, you must repeat this for each module you want to
    be affected. (Of course, you could simply edit your configuration file...)

    This option worked slightly differently prior to version 1.16.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>EXIT STATUS</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<emphasis role="strong">0</emphasis>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Success
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<emphasis role="strong">1</emphasis>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Normally this means some part of the update, build or install process
    failed, but is also used for any abnormal program end not otherwise covered
    below.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<emphasis role="strong">5</emphasis>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    A signal was received that killed <command>kdesrc-build</command>, but it
    attempted to perform normal closedown.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<emphasis role="strong">8</emphasis>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Unknown option was passed on the command line.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<emphasis role="strong">99</emphasis>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    An exception was raised that forced <command>kdesrc-build</command> to
    abort early.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>ENVIRONMENT</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<envar>HOME</envar>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Used for tilde-expansion of file names, and is the default base for the
    source, build, and installation directories.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<envar>PATH</envar>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This environment variable controls the default search path for executables.
    You can use the <option>binpath</option> configuration file option to add
    to this variable (e.g. for running from <command>cron</command>(8)).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<envar>LC_</envar>*
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Environment variables starting with LC_ control the locale used by
    <command>kdesrc-build</command>. Although <command>kdesrc-build</command>
    is still not localizable at this point, many of the commands it uses are.
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> normally sets <envar>LC_ALL</envar>=C for
    commands that its must examine the output of but you can manually do this
    as well. If setting <envar>LC_ALL</envar>=C fixes a
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> problem please submit a bug report.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<envar>SSH_AGENT_PID</envar>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    This environment variable is checked to see if
    <command>ssh-agent</command>(1) is running, but only if
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> determines that you are checking out a
    module that requires an SSH login (but you should know this as no module
    requires this by default).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<envar>KDESRC_BUILD_USE_TTY</envar>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    If set, this variable forces <command>kdesrc-build</command> not to close
    its input while executing system processes. Normally
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> closes <symbol>stdin</symbol> since the
    <symbol>stdout</symbol> and <symbol>stderr</symbol> for its child processes
    are redirected and therefore the user would never see an input prompt
    anyways.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<envar>KDESRC_BUILD_DUMP_CONTEXT</envar>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    If set, this variable prints out a description of its "build context" just
    after reading options and command line arguments and determining which
    modules to build. You pretty much never want to set this.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
others
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Many programs are used by <command>kdesrc-build</command> in the course of
    its execution, including <command>svn</command>(1),
    <command>git</command>(1), <command>make</command>(1), and
    <command>cmake</command>(1). Each of these programs may have their own
    response to environment variables being set.
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> will pass environment variables that are
    set when it is run onto these processes. You can ensure certain environment
    variables (e.g.  <envar>CC</envar> or <envar>CXX</envar>) are set by using
    the <option>set-env</option> configuration file option.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>FILES</title>

<para><filename>~/.kdesrc-buildrc</filename> - Default global configuration
file.</para>

<para><filename>./kdesrc-buildrc</filename> - If this file (note there is no
leading period (.) this time) is found in the <emphasis role="strong">current
directory</emphasis> when kdesrc-build is run, this file will be used for the
configuration instead of <filename>~/.kdesrc-buildrc</filename>.</para>

<para><filename>~/.kdesrc-build-data</filename> -
<command>kdesrc-build</command> uses this file to store persistent data (such
as last CMake options used, last revision successfully installed, etc.). It can
be safely deleted.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>BUGS</title>

<para>See <ulink url="http://bugs.kde.org/">http://bugs.kde.org/</ulink>. Be
sure to search against the <command>kdesrc-build</command> product.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>EXAMPLE</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
$ <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command></userinput>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Downloads, builds and installs all modules listed in the configuration
    file, in the order defined therein.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
$ <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command> <option>--pretend</option></userinput>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Same as above, except no permanent actions are taken (specifically no log
    files are created, downloads performed, build processes run, etc.).
    <emphasis role="strong">EXCEPTION</emphasis>: If you are trying to build a
    module defined in the &kde; project database, and the database has not been
    downloaded yet, <command>kdesrc-build</command> will download the database
    since this can significantly affect the final build order.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
$ <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command> <option>--no-src</option> <option>--refresh-build</option> <symbol>kdebase</symbol></userinput>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Deletes the build directory for the <emphasis>kdebase</emphasis> module set
    (<option>--refresh-build</option>) and then starts the build process again
    without updating the source code in-between.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
$ <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command> <option>--rc-file</option> <filename>/dev/null</filename> <option>--pretend</option></userinput>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Forces <command>kdesrc-build</command> to read an empty configuration file
    and simulate the resultant build process. This shows what would happen by
    default with no configuration file, without an error message about a
    missing configuration file.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
$ <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command> <symbol>+kdebase/kde-baseapps</symbol></userinput>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Downloads, builds and installs the <symbol>kde-baseapps</symbol> module
    from the &kde; project database. Since the module name is preceded by a
    <symbol>+</symbol> it is assumed to defined in the &kde; project
    database even if this hasn't been specifically configured in the
    configuration file.
</para>
<para>
    The <symbol>kdebase/</symbol> portion forces
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> to ignore any <symbol>kde-baseapps</symbol>
    modules that are not children of the <symbol>kdebase</symbol> supermodule
    in the project database (although it is contrived for this example).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
$ <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command> <option>--refresh-build</option> <option>--cmake-options=<replaceable>"-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug"</replaceable></option></userinput>
</term>

<listitem>
<para>
    Downloads, builds and installs all modules defined in the configuration
    file but overrides the <symbol>cmake-options</symbol> option to have
    the value given on the command line for this run only. Any further
    <command>kdesrc-build</command> runs will use the
    <symbol>cmake-options</symbol> given in the configuration file.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>SEE ALSO</title>

<para>build-tool - A program by Michael Jansen which can build &kde; software
based on included recipes.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>RESOURCES</title>

<para>Main web site: <ulink
url="http://kdesrc-build.kde.org/">http://kdesrc-build.kde.org/</ulink></para>

<para>Documentation: <ulink
url="http://kdesrc-build.kde.org/documentation/">http://kdesrc-build.kde.org/documentation/</ulink></para>

<para>Setup script: <command>kdesrc-build-setup</command></para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>COPYING</title>

<para>Copyright (C) 2003-2015 Michael Pyne.</para>

<para>This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.</para>

<para>This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.</para>

<para>You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA</para>

</refsect1>

</refentry>
