<sect1 id="building-and-troubleshooting">
<title>Using the &kdesrc-build; script</title>

<para>
Now you are ready to run the script. From a terminal window,
log in to the user you are using to compile &kde; and execute
the script:
<screen>
<prompt>&percnt;</prompt> <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command></userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>Afterwards, you should see output similar to that in <xref
linkend="example-single-module"/>:</para>

<example id="example-single-module">
<title>Example output of building a single module</title>
<screen>
<prompt>&percnt;</prompt> <userinput><command>kdesrc-build</command> <option>kdelibs</option></userinput>
Script started processing at Wed Dec 22 13:21:45 2010
&lt;&lt;&lt;  Build Process  &gt;&gt;&gt;
Building kdelibs (1/1)
        Waiting for source code update.
        Source update complete for kdelibs: 48 files affected.
        Checking for source conflicts...
        Compiling...
        Build succeeded after 13 minutes, and 6 seconds.
        Installing kdelibs.
        Overall time for kdelibs was 13 minutes, and 53 seconds.

&lt;&lt;&lt;  Build Done  &gt;&gt;&gt;

&lt;&lt;&lt;  PACKAGES SUCCESSFULLY BUILT  &gt;&gt;&gt;
kdelibs

Script finished processing at Wed Dec 22 13:35:38 2010
Your logs are saved in /home/kde-src/log-kdesrc-build/2010-12-22-01
</screen>
</example>

<para>
At this point, &kdesrc-build; should start downloading the sources and
compiling them. Depending on how many modules you are downloading, it is
possible that &kdesrc-build; will not succeed the first time you compile &kde;.
Do not despair!
</para>

<para>&kdesrc-build; logs the output of every command it runs. By default,
the log files are kept in <filename class="directory">~/kdesrc/log</filename>. To see what
the caused an error for a module in the last &kdesrc-build; command, usually
it is sufficient to look at <filename class="directory">~/kdesrc/log/latest/<replaceable>module-name</replaceable>/error.log</filename>.</para>

<tip><para>Perhaps the easiest way to find out what error caused a module to
fail to build is to search backward with a case-insensitive search, starting
from the end of the file looking for the word <literal>error</literal>.  Once
that is found, scroll up to make sure there are no other error messages nearby.
The first error message in a group is usually the underlying
problem.</para></tip>

<para>In that file, you will see the error that caused the build to fail for
that module. If the file says (at the bottom) that you are missing some
packages, try installing the package (including any appropriate -dev packages)
before trying to build that module again. Make sure that when you run
&kdesrc-build; again to pass the <link
linkend="cmdline-reconfigure">--reconfigure</link> option so that
&kdesrc-build; forces the module to check for the missing packages
again.</para>

<para>Or, if the error appears to be a build error (such as a syntax error,
<quote>incorrect prototype</quote>, <quote>unknown type</quote>, or similar)
then it is probably an error with the &kde; source, which will hopefully be
resolved within a few days. If it is not resolved within that time, feel free
to mail the <email>kde-devel@kde.org</email> mailing list (subscription may be
required first) in order to report the build failure.</para>

<para>You can find more common examples of things that can go wrong and their
solutions, as well as general tips and strategies to build &kde; in the
<ulink url="https://community.kde.org/Guidelines_and_HOWTOs/Build_from_source">
Build from Source</ulink>.
</para>

<para>On the other hand, assuming everything went well, you should have a new
&kde; install on your computer, and now it is simply a matter of running
it, described next in <xref linkend="environment"/>.</para>

<note><para>For more information about &kdesrc-build;'s logging features,
please see <xref linkend="kdesrc-build-logging"/>.</para></note>

</sect1>
