<sect1 id="cmdline-usage">
<title>Command Line Usage</title>

<para>&kdesrc-build; is designed to be run as follows:</para>

<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kdesrc-build</command>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>--options</replaceable></arg>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>modules to build</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>

<para>If no modules to build are specified on the command line, then
kdesrc-build will build all modules defined in its configuration file, in the
order listed in that file (although this can be modified by various
configuration file options).</para>

<sect2 id="cmdline-usage-modules">
<title>Specifying modules to build</title>

<para>In general, specifying modules to build is as simple as passing their
module name as you defined it in the configuration file. You can also pass
modules that are part of a module set, either as named on <link
linkend="conf-use-modules">use-modules</link>, or the name of the entire module
set itself, if you have given it a name.</para>

<para>In the specific case of module sets based against the <link
linkend="kde-projects-module-sets">KDE project database</link>, &kdesrc-build;
will expand module name components to determine the exact module you
want. For example, &kdesrc-build;'s KDE project entry locates the project in
<literal>extragear/utils/kdesrc-build</literal>. You could specify any
of the following to build &kdesrc-build;:</para>

<informalexample>
<screen>
<prompt>&percnt;</prompt> <command>kdesrc-build</command> <option><replaceable>+extragear/utils/kdesrc-build</replaceable></option>
<prompt>&percnt;</prompt> <command>kdesrc-build</command> <option><replaceable>+utils/kdesrc-build</replaceable></option>
<prompt>&percnt;</prompt> <command>kdesrc-build</command> <option><replaceable>+kdesrc-build</replaceable></option>
</screen>
</informalexample>

<note><para>The commands in the previous example preceded the module-name with
a <symbol>+</symbol>. This forces the module name to be interpreted as a module
from the KDE project database, even if that module hasn't been defined in your
configuration file.
</para></note>

<para>Be careful about specifying very generic projects (e.g.
<literal>extragear/utils</literal> by itself), as this can lead to a large
amount of modules being built. You should use the <option>--pretend</option>
option before building a new module set to ensure it is only building the
modules you want.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="cmdline-commonly-used-options">
    <title>Commonly used command line options</title>
    
    <variablelist>
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>--pretend</option> (or <option>-p</option>)</term>
        <listitem><para>This option causes &kdesrc-build; to indicate what actions
          it would take, without actually really implementing them. This can be
          useful to make sure that the modules you think you are building will
          actually get built.</para></listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>--no-src</option></term>
        <listitem><para>This option skips the source update process. You might use
          it if you have very recently updated the source code (perhaps you did it
          manually or recently ran &kdesrc-build;) but still want to rebuild some
          modules.</para></listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>--no-include-dependencies</option> (or <option>-D</option>)</term>
        <listitem><para>Only process the selected modules, skipping their dependencies.
          Useful when you have changed only selected modules, and you are sure you
          do not need to rebuild the others.</para></listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>--refresh-build</option> (or <option>-r</option>)</term>
        <listitem><para>This option forces &kdesrc-build; to build the given
          modules from an absolutely fresh start point. Any existing build directory
          for that module is removed and it is rebuilt. This option is useful if you
          have errors building a module, and sometimes is required when &Qt; or &kde;
          libraries change.</para></listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>--resume-from</option> module</term>
        <listitem><para>Skips modules until just before the given module, then operates as normal.
          Useful when the previous build failed on specific module, you fixed it, and then you
          want to continue the with building the rest of initial set of modules.</para></listitem>
      </varlistentry>
      
      <varlistentry>
        <term><option>--run</option> module</term>
        <listitem><para>Launch the built application.</para></listitem>
      </varlistentry>
    </variablelist>
  
  <para>The full list of command line options is given in <xref
  linkend="supported-cmdline-params"/>.</para>
  
  </sect2>
</sect1>
